<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
   "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"> <!-- Mandatory for xhtml, there are a bunch of different declarations, I'm not sure what the difference is though, I just know I've always used this one. -->
  
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"> <!-- This is also mandatory for xhtml -->

<head>
	<title>Warparty battle simulator (Development)</title> 
	
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css.css" />
</head>

<body>

	<div id = "navbar">
		<p>
			<a href="index.xhtml">Simulator</a>
			<a href="explanation.xhtml">Explanation</a>
			<a href="changes.xhtml">Changes</a>
		</p>
	</div>

	<div>
		<h1>Explanation</h1>	
		<p>This simulator is designed for <a href="https://boardgamegeek.com/boardgame/94255/warparty">Warparty</a> players 
		to test out interesting unit combinations and compare them. This simulator is still very much a work in progress as 
		Warparty has surprisingly deep combat mechanics, and I am only a beginner programmer. I have learned a lot about the game
		through this project, and I hope you will too. For example, did you know that if an enemy has row 2 units with lower defence
		than their row 1 units (which is usually the case) you should attack with your units that have -1 or -2 attack modifiers 
		before your other units in order to maximise your kills?</p>
		
		<p>To use the simulator, simply enter some numbers into the boxes next to the units for each of the two armies (Dwarves + Humans 
		vs Goblins and Undead), pick a number of trials and then click on submit. I would warn against using more than 1000 trials for a start 
		as depending on the size of the armies this could take a long time.</p>
		
		<p>The simulator will roll dice to determine which units hit and miss each round, and then apply those hits one by one to defending units 
		rolling a die each time to see if the defender lives or dies. The attacker targets the defenders units in order of row first (as required 
		by the game rules), and then in order of how much attack power they bring compared to how hard to kill they are. The attacker for each unit 
		is chosen based on the attributes of the defender. For example, if a defender has 2hp, then if the attacking army has any units that deal 2 
		damage, these units will attack first.</p>
		
		<p>You can see a somewhat detailed breakdown of the battle by right clicking the page -> inspect element -> console. This isn't recommended 
		if you're doing very high numbers of trials though as it may slow down the simulation.</p>
		
		<p>You can see my planned future additions on the changes page. If you have any suggestions, questions or comments, feel free to email me at 
		muldie325@gmail.com</p>
		
	</div>

</body>
</html>

